We need 250 ryo for matching coats?
How much is that each?
I have no idea.
There's only one thing to do:
go into town and make money.
So which one of us do you think...
will earn the most?
Hey! Wait up!
It'll be me, of course.
Money. Money.
All right. Let's get going.
H-Hang on, Hijikata.
What if we run into the Risshidan?
Kill them.
As if we can!
Blue Miburo
Okay. What should we do?
You mean you've got no idea, either?
Where could we even work
except at Chirinuya?
My place?
We can have fun, get praised, and get paid.
What's not to like?
I don't know. Granny isn't really—
Huh?
Come on already.
Me, too?
Don't act so spoiled.
Huh?
See?
You want money?
Well, too bad. You'll work for free.
Aw, come on! We'll work our butts off.
We just need a little pocket money.
You can work if you want,
but I'm not paying you.
Not one lousy copper mon!
That's what family's for.
How do you figure that?
Don't expect the world to hand you things!
Chirinuya
If you want money, go someplace else!
Granny!
She's got some real old-fashioned ideas.
I'm not even related to her.
Wh-What are we gonna do, Nio?
Serizawa-sensei will kill me
if I go back empty-handed.
That's why we need to look for work.
We're doomed! Doomed!
Don't worry.
Together, the three of us
will figure something out.
Welcome! Step right in!
A hopeless optimist.
That smells tasty.
Come to think of it, I haven't had breakfast.
Taro-kun! You're gonna get left behind!
What? If you've got
something to say, say it.
Oh, right.
What do you think about
"bringing back the age of the samurai"?
Huh? You mean the Risshidan?
Are they seriously trying to roll
things back to the Warring States?
In their dreams.
It's just not realistic.
Yeah.
And one other thing.
They asked me what the "way of the sword" is.
What do you think, Hajime-kun?
How can I become a samurai like you?
Be strong.
Isn't that obvious? Strength.
Strength?
I-I see. That's a very "you" answer.
Hey! I found a kashiwa mochi on the ground!
Huh? Where're you going, Hajime?
Don't follow me, either of you.
Oh, I get it! You want mochi, too, right?
Oh, fine. I'll split mine in half.
Nio, I'm glad I got to meet you.
What?
Hajime-kun?
Don't follow me.
What's your problem? Don't you want any?
Serizawa-sensei.
Let's "borrow" some cash from
one of these places and go drinking.
Good idea. Making money's a breeze.
You dolts.
How do samurai earn their keep?
By the sword.
We'll just challenge dojos
and make them pay up.
Shinpachi, how much have you got?
Let me see...
Enough to buy us both some hot soba.
What now?
That's what.
Pawnbroker
Come again.
You pawned your sword for ten ryo?
I'll buy it back when I strike it rich.
What will you do?
A samurai's sword is his life.
Samurai don't sweat the small stuff.
We'll knock their socks off
when we make all 250 ryo in one night!
You're no samurai.
Huh?
What did you say?
I beg your pardon. I misspoke.
Forgive me.
I don't mind.
You're never too proud to say sorry.
I like that about you, Shinpachi.
No, I'm truly sorry.
So what's your plan?
What did you stake your sword on?
Isn't it obvious? I've got funds.
Now I'll go multiply 'em.
Excuse me?
The dice are cast!
Odd!
Even!
Come on.
Which is it?
One and two! Odd!
It was odd?
We blew it!
A couple of suckers.
Easy marks.
Time to clean 'em out.
Just you watch.
Sanosuke, we ought to stop now.
What?
Forget buying back your sword.
We'll lose everything if this continues.
It's a shame, but needs must.
Damn. So this is how it ends.
Young men.
You shouldn't back down
once you enter the fray.
A man fights until he wins.
The battle isn't over
unless you admit defeat.
Gramps, you...
You've already lost everything you have!
No!
Victory is always within reach!
You crazy old geezer!
Soji, are you sure about this?
It's fine.
We need to get everyone coats,
and beggars can't be choosers.
But still...
That's precious to you, isn't it?
You brought it all the way from Edo.
Do you really want to sell it?
Heisuke.
I know it's wrong, but deep down,
a part of me may still be longing...
for the age of the samurai.
You mean...
Illustrated
Books\h
This is no good, mister.
Illustrated
Books\h
Huh?
What are you talking about?
It's no good. I can't give you much for it.
Are you mad, sir?
Do you have any idea
how I felt bringing it here?
You ought to be grateful
I'll buy it off you at all.
Why can't you appreciate its quality?
Are you blind?!
Oh, come on. No one's going
to buy smut like this.
Octopuses? Squids? It's ridiculous.
I'm not talking about realism!
Appreciating erotic art takes imagination!
You use your mind's eye!
Now I'm angry!
I won't sell to this two-bit shop!
You won't?
I'll earn money doing good.
Or so I say. But how should I go about it?
You're in the way.
Don't just stand there.
Pardon me.
Is anyone here in distress?
I'd like to do someone
a good turn while I'm here.
Reward: 2 ryo\h\h\h\h\hTama
Please look for this cat
\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\hIroriya
Reward: 2 ryo\h\h\h\h\hTama
Please look for this cat
\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\hIroriya
A lost cat?
Reward: 2 ryo\h\h\h\h\hTama
Please look for this cat
\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\hIroriya
Reward: 2 ryo\h\h\h\h\hTama
Please look for this cat
\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\hIroriya
This will do nicely.
Or rather, it must be quite distressing.
Still, a single cat in a city this vast?
I doubt it will prove easy to find.
Reward: 2 ryo\h\h\h\h\hTama
Please look for this cat
\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\hIroriya
Tama!
Wait!
Make way!
Tama!
I managed to sheathe it somehow,
but there's no saving it.
It's bent all to hell.
Still, my sister had it made
for me when I left Tama.
Damn that wretched Naozumi.
Before I worry about money,
I need a new sword.
Sword God
Emporium
You want ten ryo for this?!
Y-You've got to be kidding.
Sword God
Emporium
Just look at it. It's bent out of shape.
Sword God
Emporium
Fair enough.
I asked for too much.
Trade me for it, then.
How about that one?
What?
That's a Yukihira from Bungo!
I wouldn't sell that for any money!
B-By the by, what is your budget?
Money?
Sorry, I don't have much on me.
If you're just looking, go somewhere else!
What was that about?
I won't get anywhere here. They charge
for signature and reputation, not quality.
Hey, you there.
Who's this? He looks shabby.
Keep your distance.
Show me your face.
A woman?
You're a Miburo, right?
Hijikata-san the Miburo.
That's right. How did you know?
I've got a good sword.
And I want you to use it.
R-Really?
You have a sword you want me to use?
That's right, Hijikata-san the Miburo.
You.
Wait. Give me space.
First, tell me how you know about me.
How? You're famous.
Hijikata the Miburo: grouchy as a demon,
with old indigo clothes and
a handsome face that's wasted on him.
You scowl all the time,
which drives people off.
You walk like a ruffian, you mutter
to yourself, and children don't like you.
All right. You can stop now.
So what's this about a sword?
Right, the sword.
It's my teacher's.
The master is the best swordsmith in Japan.
Oh? Is he now?
It's a dump!
Do you even get any traffic
this far back from the street?
We used to get people coming here nonstop.
Hah. That's hard to believe.
It's my fault.
Well, whatever.
The best swordsmith in Japan lives here?
The best in the world!
You just called him "the best in Japan"!
Keep it down, Sakura!
You'll spoil my concentration, dimwit!
Get inside! You're bothering the neighbors!
Sorry, Master.
I brought a loudmouthed customer.
Hey.
Close the door behind you.
What?
I'm talking to you, Sakura.
You useless lump.
Y-Yes, sir!
Look at all these swords.
Those are leftovers that didn't sell.
Didn't sell?
Aren't you the best swordsmith in Japan?
I... I made those swords.
What?
I... I'm an apprentice.
A woman using the forge
has ruined my reputation.
She's a nuisance.
Go home to your parents already.
I won't leave!
Her family's known for flower arranging.
Good enough for the Honganji Temple every year.
This again?
Really? That's quite something.
She got kicked out for being dense,
and before I knew it, she settled in here.
I left on my own.
An odd duck who left a
good family to make swords,
and a stubborn smith who
gripes while he teaches her.
I can't think of a stranger pair.
I haven't taught her much of anything.
She's free to watch me work
and steal any know-how she can.
Then she takes over the forge
when I'm not using it.
But I know my stuff. After all, I watch the
master every hour, day and night.
Idiot. What kind of craftsman
declares themself qualified?
This is why I say you're still green.
S-Sorry.
You see?
No wonder we get no buyers.
In what world would any samurai
trust his life to a sword made by a woman?
You can't blame a single one of them.
I see. So that's how it is.
Word of a female swordsmith
drove people away from this smithy.
But if I make a name for myself with one of
these swords, the customers will come back.
Is that the idea?
A hitatsura pattern with yubashiri markings.
I-I'm still in training, so...
It sits well in the hand.
I'll take it.
Huh?
N-No, Hijikata-san, I want you
to carry one of the master's—
I judge by quality, not reputation.
I'll take this one.
No, listen, you—
Sakura.
A sheath.
Make it quick.
R-Right.
Good.
You're becoming a smith?
Get out! Never darken our door again!
Don't mock me, woman! Go home!
I'm not leaving!
I've got nowhere else to go!
Swordsmith
Sorry, but I'm not doing business
with a forge worked by a woman.
I'm sorry. It's all my fault.
Don't you worry about it.
Sooner or later, they'll realize
craft is all about results.
Everyone will.
What are you crying for?!
What'd I tell you? Keep at it,
and they'll come around eventually.
Master.
Hijikata-san, was it?
I don't need your money.
Instead, I've got a request.
From now on, take your
business to her, not me.
She knows her craft, if nothing else.
You bow, too!
R-Right!
All right.
I'll be back.
Y-You mean it?
You'll get a bad name, too,
if you carry swords made by a woman.
A bad name?
I'm used to it.
That place really does make good dango.
This again? Now I've got to try it.
Mountain.
River.
What's today's catch?
Sweetfish.
The Snake's on the second floor.
I know.
Well, well. Long time no see.
I didn't think you'd ever be back.
You got bigger again. A snake in name only.
I can't even wipe my own ass anymore.
So? Since you came to me,
I'm guessing you want money?
Who will you kill, Jiro?
Or is it Saito Hajime II now?
The
Race
to
Raise
Money
Next time
Each in his own way,
the Miburo race to raise funds.
While Hajime acts alone,
Nio and Taro come across a woman.
With the exception of
meeting Shogun Iemochi,
this encounter changes Nio's destiny
and the Miburo's more than any other.
Next time: "Like a River's Flow."
Like
a
River's
Flow
It won't disappoint.